Engdocs 633 (#14534)
docker/docker.github.io: desktop/extensions.md

---
description: Extensions
keywords: Extensions, Docker Desktop, Linux, Mac, Windows

> title: Extensions

Reviewer: Suggest: Docker Extensions

toc_min: 1
toc_max: 2
---

Docker Extensions lets you use third-party tools within Docker Desktop to extend its functionality. There is no limit to the number of extensions you can install.

> Docker Community members and partners can use our [SDK](https://docker-desktop-extensions.netlify.app/){:target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="_"}  to create new extensions. 

Reviewer: The link currently points to the Netlify site. @gtardif Wondering if we can also have the SDK docs ready when the user manual goes live?

Author: Currently reviewing the SDK docs now. They won't be ready to be released today along with the user manual. Was going to create a separate ticket to update with the new link when the SDK docs are ready.

> **Preview**
>

> >The Docker Extensions feature is currently offered as a Preview. We recommend you do not use this in production environments.

Reviewer: nit: Add space after `>`

> >The Docker Extensions feature is currently offered as a Preview. We recommend you do not use this in production environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The Docker Extensions feature is currently offered as a Preview. We recommend that you do not use Extensions in production environments.
```

![extenstions](images/extensions-image.PNG){:width="750px"}

## Prerequisites

Docker Extensions is available as part of Docker Desktop 4.8.0 or a later release. Download and install Docker Desktop 4.8.0 or later:

* [Mac](mac/release-notes/index.md)
* [Windows](windows/release-notes/index.md)
* [Linux](linux/index.md)

## Add an extension

>**Note**
>
> For some extensions, a separate account needs to be created before use.

To add Docker Extensions:

1. Open Docker Desktop.
2. From the Dashboard, select **Add Extensions** in the menu bar. 
The Extensions Marketplace opens. 
2. Browse the available extensions.
3. Click **Install**.<br>
From here, you can click **Open** to access the extension or install additional extensions. The extension also appears in the menu bar.

## Enable or disable extensions available in the Marketplace

 Docker Extensions are switched on by default. To change your settings:

1. Navigate to  **Settings**, or **Preferences** if you're a Mac user.
2. Select the **Extensions** tab.

> 3. Next to **Enable Docker Extensions**, select or deselect the checkbox to to set your desired state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Next to **Enable Docker Extensions**, select or clear the checkbox to set your desired state.
```

4. In the bottom-right corner, click **Apply & Restart**.

## Enable or disable extensions not available in the Marketplace

You can install Docker Extensions through the Marketplace or through the Extensions SDK tools. You can choose to only allow published extensions (that have been published in the Extensions Marketplace).

1. Navigate to **Settings**, or **Preferences** if you're a Mac user.

> 2. Select the Extensions tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select the **Extensions** tab.
```

> 3. Next to **Allow only extensions distributed through the Docker Marketplace**, select or deselect the checkbox to set your desired state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Next to **Allow only extensions distributed through the Docker Marketplace**, select or clear the checkbox to set your desired state.
```

4. In the bottom-right corner, click **Apply & Restart**.

## Update an extension
You can update Docker Extensions outside of Docker Desktop releases. To update an extension to the latest version:

> 1. From the menu bar, select the ellipsis to the right of **Extensions**.

Reviewer: Suggest we add the navigation to go to the Extensions tab in Docker Dashboard as a first step

2. Click **Manage Extensions**.

> If an extension has a new version available, an **Update** button is visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an extension has a new version available, it displays an **Update** button.
```

3. Click **Update**.

## Uninstall an extension
 You can uninstall an extension at any time. 
 
 > **Note**  
 >

>  >Any data used by the extension that is stored in a volume must be manually deleted. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 > Any data used by the extension that is stored in a volume must be manually deleted. 
```
